# Navigation
Navigation is autogenerated by [a macro](/src/_includes/navigation-macro.njk) that goes through all of the .md pages in /src and checks for [frontmatter](#frontmatter) that tells the macro if the page should be in a subcategory and in that case which one.

## Frontmatter
On normal pages it looks like this:
```
---
title: "Formulas and RunRecords"
layout: base.njk
eleventyNavigation: 
    key: Formulas and RunRecords
    parent: Data, Execution and Formulas
    order: 30
---
```

and is found in (or should be added to) the top of any .md file that should be shown on the website.

### Title
The title that you will see when you open the page.

### Layout
We currently only have one layout for content, so please just stick with `base.njk` on this one.

### EleventyNavigation
So here we have key, parent and order. 

`key` is the link-name that is shown in the navigation. 

`parent` should point to the parent `key`, if this is to be a subpage of that category. Read more in [Adding a category](#adding-a-category)

`order` is used to sort the pages shown.

## Adding a category
To add a new category to the navigation you need to create a page with some frontmatter, it is recommended to use folders with the category-name and put an index.md there for the category frontmatter. Pages that correspond to a category should be in that folder as well. Creating nested categories is basically just creating a new category in another category (put a folder in the parent category).

### Category Frontmatter
```
---
title: "Data, Execution and Formulas"
layout: base.njk
eleventyNavigation: 
    key: Data, Execution and Formulas
    parent: API Specs
    order: 10
---
```

In a category page, there should not be anything other than the frontmatter since this page will not be linked to anyway. The important stuff is in the `eleventyNavigation` part. 

In this case the `parent` points to another category page and thus we have a nested category.